doc/ReadMe/ReadMe.md, before:

# Krigings

`@author` Marialaura Bancheri

`@author` Francesco Serafin (sidereus3), francesco.serafin.3@gmail.com

`@author` Daniele Andreis, daniele.andreis@gmail.com


`@copyright` GNU Public License v3 AboutHydrology (Riccardo Rigon)

## Description

The **Krigings** project is designed to perform spatial interpolation using kriging methods.
The implementation includes the following components:

  *  Variogram modeling: Supports multiple types of variograms (e.g., spherical, exponential, Gaussian).
  *  Ordinary kriging (OK) and Detrended Kriging for interpolation.
  *  Cross-validation module: Evaluates model accuracy through leave-one-out cross-validation.
  *  Input/Output: Reads input data from shapefile and csv and outputs results as CSV/GeoTIFF.

The project is developed using **Java** and built with **Gradle** to ensure modularity and flexibility.

First version from [@Formetta2014-zn] and [@Bancheri2018-x]

A ***built version of the lates release*** is available at the [ GitHub release section](https://github.com/geoframecomponents/Krigings/releases).


## Repository and Compatibility

* The project can be imported into *Eclipse*.
* It is available on GitHub and can be cloned or downloaded from: [GitHub Repository](https://github.com/geoframecomponents/Krigings.git)
* **Travis CI** is set up for automated builds and testing, running on every commit but only deploying the JAR file when a tagged release is pushed to GitHub.
* The project uses Java ?? (Oracle JDK ??) for compatibility.


## Developers' documentation

This project is a Gradle-based Java project.

![Gradle logo](doc/ReadMe/gradle.png)

### Building the Project

To build the project, run the following command in the working directory:

    ~ $ gradle build

in the working directory. You will find the built `.jar` in `build/libs`.
Once the build process is complete, the generated `.jar` file will be located in the `build/libs` directory.

### Building the ReadMe File

To convert the ReadMe file from Markdown (`.md`) to RestructuredText (`.rst`), run:

    pandoc doc/ReadMe/ReadMe.md -o ReadMe.rst --bibliography=doc/ReadMe/biblio.bib

This command ensures proper formatting and inclusion of references from the `biblio.bib` file.



### Package Structure

**Base Package:** `org.geoframe.blogpost.kriging`

---

#### `org.geoframe.blogpost.kriging`
**Main Class:**
- `Kriging.java` → Main execution class for kriging interpolation

---

#### `org.geoframe.blogpost.kriging.interpolationdata`


**Description:** Provides interpolation data, including raster and vector input handling.
**Main Classes:**
- `InterpolationDataProvider.java` → Interface for providing interpolation data
- `RasterInterpolationProvider.java` → Handles raster-based interpolation
- `VectorInterpolationProvider.java` → Handles vector-based interpolation

---

#### `org.geoframe.blogpost.kriging.linearsystemsolver`
**Description:** Implements solvers for linear systems required in kriging computations.
**Main Class:**
- `SimpleLinearSystemSolverFactory.java` → Factory class for linear system solvers

---

### `org.geoframe.blogpost.kriging.loo` (Leave-One-Out Kriging)
**Description:** Implements Leave-One-Out cross-validation (LOO-CV) for assessing kriging accuracy.
**Main Class:**
- `LeaveOneOutKrigings.java` → Performs leave-one-out kriging validation

---

#### `org.geoframe.blogpost.kriging.pointcase`
**Description:** Implements kriging for point-based interpolation.
**Main Class:**
- `KrigingPointCase.java` → Performs kriging interpolation on point data, actual implementation of the Kriging abstract class.

---

#### `org.geoframe.blogpost.kriging.primarylocation`
**Description:** Manages station selection, residual evaluation, and spatial processing.
**Main Classes:**
- `MaxDistance.java` → Computes the maximum interpolation distance
- `Model.java` → Defines station selection models
- `NumberOfStations.java` → Determines the number of stations used in kriging
- `ResidualsEvaluator.java` → Compute a regression and evaluates residuals.
- `StationProcessor.java` → Preprocesses station data (filter with StationSelection and compute the residuals.)
- `StationsSelection.java` → Implements station selection strategies

---

#### `org.geoframe.blogpost.kriging.rastercase`
**Description:** Implements kriging for raster datasets.
**Main Class:**
- `KrigingRasterCase.java` → Applies kriging on raster data, actual implementation of Kriging abstract class.

---

#### `org.geoframe.blogpost.kriging.variogram`
**Description:** Implements variogram modeling, both experimental and theoretical.


###### `org.geoframe.blogpost.kriging.variogram.experimental`
- `ExperimentalVariogram.java` → Computes the experimental variogram from data.

###### `org.geoframe.blogpost.kriging.variogram.theoretical.curvefitter`
- `KrigingParamValidator.java` → Validates kriging parameters
- `VariogramFitter.java` → Fits variogram models to experimental data. **Note**:  Initial guess values are set here.
- `VariogramFunction.java` → Implements mathematical functions for variogram calculations. **Note**:There is no if statement for logarithmic and exponential functions in the case where the x value is equal to 0.

###### `org.geoframe.blogpost.kriging.variogram.theoretical.model`
**Supported theoretical variogram models:**
- `Bessel.java`
- `Circular.java`
- `Exponential.java`
- `Gaussian.java`
- `Spherical.java`
- `Logarithmic.java`
- `Pentashperical.java`
- `Spline.java`

---

#### `org.geoframe.blogpost.kriging.utilities`
**Description:** Utility functions and helper classes for kriging computations, including logarithmic transformation and the extraction of coordinates from a feature collection.

**Note**: This module might be restructured. The logarithmic transformation could be moved to a separate module to run before and after (see [issue #4](https://github.com/bubbobne/Krigings/issues/4)).
Additionally, getCoordinate might be better placed in a different class.
---


## Linkers' documentation

Integration with OMS3/GEOFrame:

    * The project is structured to be compatible with **GEOFrame/OMS3** models.
    * Input data can be retrieved from existing hydrological simulations for further processing.


## Users' documentation

(To be completed, it will be published on a Notion static page or on the blog.)


##  Future Improvements



## References

::: {#refs}
:::

Commit message:

add assertion to parallel test

doc/ReadMe/ReadMe.md, after:

# Krigings

`@author` Marialaura Bancheri

`@author` Francesco Serafin (sidereus3), francesco.serafin.3@gmail.com

`@author` Daniele Andreis, daniele.andreis@gmail.com


`@copyright` GNU Public License v3 AboutHydrology (Riccardo Rigon)

## Description

The **Krigings** project is designed to perform spatial interpolation using kriging methods.
The implementation includes the following components:

  *  Variogram modeling: Supports multiple types of variograms (e.g., spherical, exponential, Gaussian).
  *  Ordinary kriging (OK) and Detrended Kriging for interpolation.
  *  Cross-validation module: Evaluates model accuracy through leave-one-out cross-validation.
  *  Input/Output: Reads input data from shapefile and csv and outputs results as CSV/GeoTIFF.

The project is developed using **Java** and built with **Gradle** to ensure modularity and flexibility.

First version from [@Formetta2014-zn] and [@Bancheri2018-x]

A ***built version of the lates release*** is available at the [ GitHub release section](https://github.com/geoframecomponents/Krigings/releases).


## Repository and Compatibility

* The project can be imported into *Eclipse*.
* It is available on GitHub and can be cloned or downloaded from: [GitHub Repository](https://github.com/geoframecomponents/Krigings.git)
* **Travis CI** is set up for automated builds and testing, running on every commit but only deploying the JAR file when a tagged release is pushed to GitHub.
* The project uses Java ?? (Oracle JDK ??) for compatibility.


## Developers' documentation

This project is a Gradle-based Java project.

![Gradle logo](doc/ReadMe/gradle.png)

### Building the Project

To build the project, run the following command in the working directory:

    ~ $ gradle build

in the working directory. You will find the built `.jar` in `build/libs`.
Once the build process is complete, the generated `.jar` file will be located in the `build/libs` directory.

### Building the ReadMe File

To convert the ReadMe file from Markdown (`.md`) to RestructuredText (`.rst`), run:

    pandoc doc/ReadMe/ReadMe.md -o ReadMe.rst --bibliography=doc/ReadMe/biblio.bib

This command ensures proper formatting and inclusion of references from the `biblio.bib` file.



### Package Structure

**Base Package:** `org.geoframe.blogpost.kriging`

---

#### `org.geoframe.blogpost.kriging`
**Main Class:**
- `Kriging.java` → Main execution class for kriging interpolation

---

#### `org.geoframe.blogpost.kriging.interpolationdata`


**Description:** Provides interpolation data, including raster and vector input handling.
**Main Classes:**
- `InterpolationDataProvider.java` → Interface for providing interpolation data
- `RasterInterpolationProvider.java` → Handles raster-based interpolation
- `VectorInterpolationProvider.java` → Handles vector-based interpolation

---

#### `org.geoframe.blogpost.kriging.linearsystemsolver`
**Description:** Implements solvers for linear systems required in kriging computations.
**Main Class:**
- `SimpleLinearSystemSolverFactory.java` → Factory class for linear system solvers

---

### `org.geoframe.blogpost.kriging.loo` (Leave-One-Out Kriging)
**Description:** Implements Leave-One-Out cross-validation (LOO-CV) for assessing kriging accuracy.
**Main Class:**
- `LeaveOneOutKrigings.java` → Performs leave-one-out kriging validation

---

#### `org.geoframe.blogpost.kriging.pointcase`
**Description:** Implements kriging for point-based interpolation.
**Main Class:**
- `KrigingPointCase.java` → Performs kriging interpolation on point data, actual implementation of the Kriging abstract class.

---

#### `org.geoframe.blogpost.kriging.primarylocation`
**Description:** Manages station selection, residual evaluation, and spatial processing.
**Main Classes:**
- `MaxDistance.java` → Computes the maximum interpolation distance
- `Model.java` → Defines station selection models
- `NumberOfStations.java` → Determines the number of stations used in kriging
- `ResidualsEvaluator.java` → Compute a regression and evaluates residuals.
- `StationProcessor.java` → Preprocesses station data (filter with StationSelection and compute the residuals.)
- `StationsSelection.java` → Implements station selection strategies

---

#### `org.geoframe.blogpost.kriging.rastercase`
**Description:** Implements kriging for raster datasets.
**Main Class:**
- `KrigingRasterCase.java` → Applies kriging on raster data, actual implementation of Kriging abstract class.

---

#### `org.geoframe.blogpost.kriging.variogram`
**Description:** Implements variogram modeling, both experimental and theoretical.


###### `org.geoframe.blogpost.kriging.variogram.experimental`
- `ExperimentalVariogram.java` → Computes the experimental variogram from data.

###### `org.geoframe.blogpost.kriging.variogram.theoretical.curvefitter`
- `KrigingParamValidator.java` → Validates kriging parameters
- `VariogramFitter.java` → Fits variogram models to experimental data. **Note**:  Initial guess values are set here.
- `VariogramFunction.java` → Implements mathematical functions for variogram calculations. **Note**:There is no if statement for logarithmic and exponential functions in the case where the x value is equal to 0.

###### `org.geoframe.blogpost.kriging.variogram.theoretical.model`
**Supported theoretical variogram models:**
- `Bessel.java`
- `Circular.java`
- `Exponential.java`
- `Gaussian.java`
- `Spherical.java`
- `Logarithmic.java`
- `Pentashperical.java`
- `Spline.java`

---

#### `org.geoframe.blogpost.kriging.utilities`
**Description:** Utility functions and helper classes for kriging computations, including logarithmic transformation and the extraction of coordinates from a feature collection.

**Note**: This module might be restructured. The logarithmic transformation could be moved to a separate module to run before and after (see [issue #4](https://github.com/bubbobne/Krigings/issues/4)).
Additionally, getCoordinate might be better placed in a different class.
---


## Linkers' documentation

Integration with OMS3/GEOFrame:

    * The project is structured to be compatible with **GEOFrame/OMS3** models.
    * Input data can be retrieved from existing hydrological simulations for further processing.


## Users' documentation

(To be completed, it will be published on a Notion static page or on the blog.)

## Under Development

### PArallelization

A parallelization method is now under test. If the flag ***parallelComputation*** is set to true, a method that uses **ParallelStream** is employed. 

**Note**: This can be useful if you have a large number of points/maps and are not using tree parallelization.

##  Future Improvements



## References

::: {#refs}
:::
